The Miser And His Gold
An old miser lived in a house with a garden. 
The miser hid his gold coins in a pit under some stones in the garden. 
Every day, before going to bed, the miser went to the stones where he hid the gold and counted the coins. 
He continued this routine every day, but not once did he spend the gold he saved.

One day, a thief who knew the old miser’s routine, waited for the old man to go back into his house. 
After it was dark, the thief went to the hiding place and took the gold. 
The next day, the old miser found that his treasure was missing and started crying loudly.

His neighbor heard the miser’s cries and inquired about what happened. 
On learning what happened, the neighbor asked, “Why didn’t you save the money inside the house? 
It would’ve been easier to access the money when you had to buy something!”

“Buy?”, said the miser. “I never used the gold to buy anything. I was never going to spend it.”

On hearing this, the neighbor threw a stone into the pit and said, “If that is the case, save the stone. It is as worthless as the gold you have lost”.

The Tortoise And The Bird
A tortoise was resting under a tree, on which a bird had built its nest. 
The tortoise spoke to the bird mockingly, “What a shabby home you have! It is made of broken twigs, it has no roof, and looks crude. 
What’s worse is that you had to build it yourself. I think my house, which is my shell, is much better than your pathetic nest”.

“Yes, it is made of broken sticks, looks shabby and is open to the elements of nature. It is crude, but I built it, and I like it.”

“I guess it’s just like any other nest, but not better than mine”, said the tortoise. “You must be jealous of my shell, though.”

“On the contrary”, the bird replied. “My home has space for my family and friends, your shell cannot accommodate anyone other than you. 
Maybe you have a better house. But I have a better home”, said the bird happily.
Source: https://www.momjunction.com/articles/moral-stories-for-kids_00369197/